# Old vs New Eminem
PLEASE DO NOT SHOW THIS PORTFOLIO IN CLASS

<p align="justify"> This study explores the differences in the music of Eminem, one of the most influential and successful rappers of all time. The focus will be on his studio albums, divided into two distinct periods: the albums released before 2006, referred to as "old Eminem," and those released after 2006, referred to as "new Eminem." Several events in Eminem's life are cited as contributing to the shift from "old Eminem" to "new Eminem". Many of these events took place around 2006, which is why this limit has been used in this study. In addition, not all fans were happy with this change and still hope for the return of the old eminem. This begs the question: what exactly is the difference between the old and new Eminem?</p>

<p align="justify"> Within this corpus, the study takes a closer look at three specific songs: "The Real Slim Shady," "Darkness," and "Jimmy Brian and Mike." "The Real Slim Shady" was released in 2000 and is considered a classic example of old Eminem's shock value rap style. "Darkness", released in 2020, represents Eminem's more political approach to rap with many double entenders."Jimmy Brian and Mike", a more recent release, is a combination of the old and new Eminem. He recorded part of this song around the year 2000 and then recorded the rest of the song in 2022. </p>

<p align="justify"> The purpose of this research is to compare the differences in Eminem's music in these two different periods. It is expected that there will be changes in the themes and subject matter of the rap lyrics, as well as differences in the musical elements, such as tempo, energy and mood. However, it is also expected that Eminem's signature style of clear delivery has remained the same. Through the three tracks selected for this research, which represent a cross-section of Eminem's discography, we hope to gain an even better understanding of how Eminem's music has changed over time. </p>
